# Auction bundles

## Table of contents

1. [Generating special depot location](#generating-special-depot-location)
2. [Bundles](#bundles)
   - [Generating bundles](#generating-bundles)
   - [Profit calculation](#profit-calculation)
3. [Bidding process](#bidding-process)
4. [Distributing bundles](#distributing-bundles)

## Generating special depot location

From a certain depot location of a carrier, all depot locations of other carrier within a certain radius is considered
as a set of depot locations. A special depot location is generated by getting the mean value of all element in a set of
depot locations. Higher tier of special depot location is generated by forming all special depot location within
a certain radius and getting the mean value of such set of special depot location. Generating function is looped
until the number of special depot location is narrowed down under a certain threshold. In case the generated depot 
locations unchange and the amount still bigger than threshhold, then function will be looped with bigger radius. Setting 
the big radius whengenerating special depot location helps to narrow down the number of depot locations faster. Whereas 
the small radius helps to form bundles more fitting to the carriers.

## Bundles

A bundle is a list of transport request. A bundle has fixed size and contains only transport requests which make profit
to a special depot location. There is a limit to the maximum number of bundle (number of generated special depot location).
As long as the amount of bundles doesn't exceed this limit, new bundle is generated until no more new bundle can be generated.
A bundle that contains only transport requests that are elements in another bundle, in other words, a bundle that is a 
subset of another bundle, will be deleted. New bundle will then be generated based on another special depot location.

> <b>Example 1:</b> If bundle **A = {R1, R2, R3}** and bundle **B = {R2, R4, R5}**, then both bundles are retained.

> <b>Example 2:</b> If bundle **A = {R1, R2}** and bundle **B = {R1, R2, R4, R5}**, then bundle A is deleted, only bundle B is retained.

> <b>Note</b>: Use <code>containsAll()</code> method to form all bundle into a nested list of transport request.

### Generating bundles

All requests within radius from a special depot location will be considered. Any of them that make profit to that special depot
location are formed into a bundle. The number of transport requests in a bundle is set from 3 to 5 requests. If the minimum number
is not reached, all requests within a bigger radius will be considered. Transport requests that don't belong to any bundles are 
auctioned off as single request.
   
### Profit calculation

The direct route of a transport request is defined as the route from pickup location straight to deliver location
without visiting any other locations. The profit considered when forming bundles is the difference of the price
per km multiplied with the length of the direct route and the cost that a carrier has to pay for travelling
on the actual route based on the generated tour. The base rate to reach the pickup point and loading/unloading cost are excluded from
the calculation as they are irrelevant to the bundle forming process. In particular, following requirements must be
fulfilled when forming bundles 
- All requests within a bundle have to make a positive profit.
- The total revenue of a bundle based on a special depot location has to be positive, since the total revenue takes the total tour length into account

## Bidding process

Not all transport requests within a bundle could bring profit to each carrier. In order to help carriers to maximize
their profit while bidding for bundles, as long as <ins>the average profit of all requests within a bundle</ins>
is higher than the value set in _Min. profit to bid_ by a carrier, this bundle is recommended for that carrier to bid.
Automatically, carriers will always place their highest possible bid on such bundle, i.e., the difference of
the profit and the value of _Min. profit to bid_. 

> <b>Example:</b> \
Let bundle **A = {R1, R2, R3, R4}**.\
Carrier B set its _Min. profit to bid_ to **30**.\
Profit gain of R1 for carrier B is _100_, R2 is _80_, R3 is _50_, and R4 is _-10_.\
The average profit that carrier B will attain after including all requests of bundle A in its tour is **55**.\
Carrier B will automatically bid on bundle A.

> In the above example, carrier B will bid **25** for bundle A.

## Distributing bundles

All bundles are sold at the same time. The highest bid price (winning price) on a bundle is distributed equally over all
requests in that bundle.

If two or more carriers have won two or more bundles that contain some common requests, then only bundles of carrier
paying the most are sold, the rest are deformed. The requests in unsold bundles will be put into second auction list,
to which carriers will bid in the next iteration.

> <b>Example 1</b>: Bundles A, B and C have some common requests, and carrier 1 has won on bidding bundles A and B,
carrier 2 has won bundle C, then bundles A and B are sold to carrier 1, bundle C will be deformed.

> <b>Example 2</b>: Bundles A and B have common requests, bundles B and C have common requests,
and these bundles are respectively won by carriers 1, 2 and 3, then bundles A and C will be sold,
bundle B will be deformed. 

A smart calculator is implemented to compute which bundles will be sold to maximize the profit for all sellers.

If a carrier has won 2 or more bundles that have some common transport requests, the paying price of the second bundle
(and other bundles) will be deducted based on the number of common transport request(s).

> <b>Example:</b> Carrier A has won bundle B and C which has N requests. These two bundles have 2 common transport requests.\
Carrier A then have to pay price _b_ for bundle B and price _c - <sup>c</sup>&frasl;<sub>N</sub> * 2_ for bundle C.
Prices _b_ and _c_ are the 2<sup>nd</sup> highest bid price on each bundle and _b_ > _c_.

> <b>Note:</b> All requests in winning bundles of a carrier are stored as <code>HashMap</code> of winning requests 
and the prices winners have to pay. Price of a request is the 2<sup>nd</sup> highest bid of the bundle containing the request
divided by the number of requests within that bundle.