# CCN

CCN is an application presenting an auction based Collaborative Carrier Network. It is designed exclusively for small 
and medium sized carriers and harnesses the power of global optimization to deliver economically efficient solutions to
every participant in the network. In addition, carriers incur much lower costs than traditional negotiation processes.

## Table of contents

1. [Features](#features)
2. [Download](#download)
3. [Logs](#logs)
4. [User manual](#user-manual)
   - [Registration](#registration)
   - [Login as carrier](#login-as-carrier)
   - [Login as auctioneer](#login-as-auctioneer)
   - [Auction process](#auction-process)


## Features

- Optimize the profit of daily "pickup and delivery" transport business for all participated carriers
- Support the reassignment of transport requests, that assure an increase in profit
- An auction-based solution is used to support privacy of agents
- A graphical use interface is available to support the analytical view of solutions

## Download

Before starting the application, please make sure you have [OpenJDK](https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases)
(Version: 11.0.14 or later) installed on your computer. 

Open the [repository](https://ccn.jfrog.io/ui/native/ccn-generic-local/) of the application. Download the file _CCN.jar_. 
After download is completed, right-click on the file, choose _Open with_ then choose 
_OpenJDK Platform binary_ to run the application.

If a login screen appears when accessing the repository or the download link, use the following credentials to log in:
```
Username: ccn-group4
Password: CCN-tuhh-group4
```

> <b>Note</b>: Since we use a free 30-day-trial for the cloud repository, please download the file before the 8<sup>th</sup>
of August. After that, the repository is not available any more.

## Logs
When starting the application, logs are documented in the log file created for the current date. Log files are located
in the directory _logs_ and their names indicate which date are the logs referring to. The directory _logs_ is located in
the same folder as the application.

## User manual

### Registration

To register a carrier agent, choose _Register_ in the start window. Fill out the registration form, then click on the
_Register_ button at the bottom. Here are notations on some fields in the registration form:

- **Transport requests**: Tranport requests are enclosed in <> and separated by commas. Each request is of the form
_((x1,y1),(x2,y2))_, where _(x1,y1)_ is the coordinate of the pickup point and _(x2,y2)_ is of the delivery point.
Coordinates can be negative or contain a decimal point.
- **Base rate A**: Base rate to reach the pickup point. The input has to be positive and can have up to two decimal digits.
- **Base rate B**: Base rate for loading/unloading. The input has to be positive and can have up to two decimal digits.
- **Price**: Price for 1 km. The input has to be positive and can have up to two decimal digits.
- **Internal rate**: Internal rate for 1 km. The input has to be positive and can have up to two decimal digits.
- **Depot latitude/longitude**: Coordinate where the carriers start their tour. Inputs can be negative and contain
a decimal point.

### Login as carrier

To login as a carrier agent, choose _Login_ in the start window. Enter a valid username/password, then click on the
_Login_ button at the bottom.

After logging in successfully, a window displaying an overview of all transport requests of the carrier appears.
Column _Price_ shows the price the carrier has to pay if the corresponding transport request was won in an auction.
In the next auction process, the prices of the old transport requests will be set back to 0. Below the table is a
revenue report displaying:

- **Total cost**: Cost that a carrier has to pay for delivering all requests on a tour
- **Total earning**: Earning that a carrier will get from shippers after delivering all requests
- **Total revenue**: Total amount of income generated by delivering all requests
- **Total profit**: Sum of profit of all transport requests a carrier own

User can set the minimum profit of transport requests to be bid or maximum profit of transport requests to be auctioned 
off by entering a price in the field _Min. profit to bid_ or _Max. profit to auction off_ respectively. To logout, click
on the [X]-Button in the top-right corner.

By clicking on the button _Visualize tour_ (underneath the table), the current tour is visualized in a new window 
on the right panel. On the left panel is the old tour of the carrier before joining the last auction process.
Below are the notations of what each symbol in the plot represents.

### Login as auctioneer

To login as an auctioneer, choose _Login_ in the start window. Enter **auctioneer** as username <ins>and</ins> password, 
then click on the _Login_ button at the bottom. After logging in, click on _Start auction_ to start auction process.
After the auction process finishes, the application will terminate automatically. To monitor the auction process,
please refer to the log file of the current date.

### Auction process

The auctioneer calculates the profit of each transport requests for all carriers and decides which request to auction
off based on the value set in _Max. profit to auction off_ by carriers. The auctioneer then forms possible bundles from
transport requests that were sent to auction and carriers can bid for these bundles. The bid is calculated based on the
value set in _Min. profit to bid_ by carriers. Finally, the auctioneer computes the best distribution of bundles to
carriers. The implemented auction mechanism is Vickery auction.

> <b>Note</b>: Want to know more about how bundles are generated and distributed? Click [here](Bundle.md).


